#summary The documentation page of the xml::document class

*xml::document*

The xml::document class represents the entire xml-document. You've acces to alle elements in the document through the [#xml::element_root root element].

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />


== xml::element root ==
This is the root element of the document. See [xmlElement xml::element] for more info about the [xmlElement xml::element] class.

== document(const element& root, const std::string& initEncoding) ==
Default constructor of the document class, this initialises the [#xml::element_root root element] with _root_ and the encoding with _initEncoding_. The root element defaults to an empty element named _"root"_, the encoding defaults to _"ISO-8859-1"_.

== document(const std::string& rootName, const std::string& initEncoding) ==
Another constructor for the document class. This one initialises the root element with _rootName_ as name. The encoding is initialised with _initEncoding_, which defaults to _"ISO-8859-1"_.

== std::string toString() const ==
Convert the entire XML document to a string containing the xml code.

== void setEncoding(const std::string& newEncoding) ==
Changes the encoding attribute of the document. The encoding may not be empty, if it is it will automatically be changed to _"ISO-8859-1"_.

== std::string encoding() const ==
Get the value of the encoding attribute of the document.

== void parse(std::istream& in) throw(parseError) ==
Parse the document from the given stream. This function can throw a [xmlParseError xml::parseError] when something goes wrong.

== void parse(const std::string& str) throw(parseError) ==
Parse the document from the given string. This function can throw a [xmlParseError xml::parseError] when something goes wrong.

== friend std::ostream& operator<<(std::ostream& out, const document& doc) ==
This is a friend function, and not a member of the class. This can be used to write the entire document as xml-code to an output stream.